README.md, before:

# Rabbit Virtual Compnents Platform

## Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Installing](#installing)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Development](#development)
- [Add New Component](#add_new_component)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

## About <a name = "about"></a>

Rabbit is a virtual components platform for FDP3P7 FPGA board. 
It can receive and send data from/to the FPGA board via USB and show the data through the GUI. 

[Wonton](https://github.com/ChayCai/Wonton_master) is the previous version of Rabbit which is implemented in C#(core) and Electron(GUI). Rabbit is completely rewritten in C++ and Qt6 to improve the performance and stability.

## Installing <a name= "installing"></a>

### 1. Source Code compilation and Installation

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. 

#### Prerequisites

Before building Rabbit, you need to install [Qt6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6) and [xmake](https://xmake.io/#/). 

#### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/0xtaruhi/Rabbit.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
#### Build libusb

After cloning the repository, you need to build libusb first.

* Linux & MacOS

    ```bash
    cd libusb
    ./autogen.sh
    ./configure
    make
    ```

* Windows

    Open the `libusb\msvc\libusb.sln` with **Visual Studio** and build the **static library**. Then copy the `libusb\msvc\libusb\Release\libusb-1.0.lib` to `libusb\libusb\.libs\usb-1.0.lib`.

#### Build & Run Rabbit

Then you can build Rabbit.

```bash
cd ..
xmake build
```

Finally, you can run Rabbit.

```bash
xmake run
```

### 2. Binary Installation

Refer to the [Release Page](https://github.com/0xtaruhi/Rabbit/releases) to download the binary package.

## Usage <a name = "usage"></a>

Refer to the [User Manual](./doc/RabbitHelpDoc.md) for more information.

## Development <a name = "development"></a>

Refer to the [Developer Manual](./doc/RabbitDevDoc.md) for more information.

## Add New Component <a name = "add_new_component"></a>

Refer to the [Add New Component Manual](./doc/AddNewComponent.md) for more information.

## Issues <a name = "issues"></a>

If you have any questions or suggestions, please feel free to open an issue.

Here are some known issues:

1. `libusb` does not support MacOS **M1** chip. 

2. On ubuntu/debian, you need to install `libxcb-cursor` :
   ```
   sudo apt-get install libxcb-cursor0 
   ``` 
   when you run the binary package and get the error message:
   > /usr/local/bin/Rabbit/rabbit_App: error while loading shared libraries: libQt6Widgets.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory


## Contributors <a name = "contributors"></a>

* [0xtaruhi](https://github.com/0xtaruhi) - Main Developer
* [Mxcln](https://github.com/Mxcln) - Developer

Commit message:

Added submodule for QT6.5.5, updated README with compilation instructions for MacOS 15, small changes to make lua file, renamed VLFD library binaries for MacOS, added gtkwave binaries compiled for apple silicon

README.md, after:

# Rabbit Virtual Compnents Platform

## Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Installing](#installing)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Development](#development)
- [Add New Component](#add_new_component)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

## About <a name = "about"></a>

Rabbit is a virtual components platform for FDP3P7 FPGA board. 
It can receive and send data from/to the FPGA board via USB and show the data through the GUI. 

[Wonton](https://github.com/ChayCai/Wonton_master) is the previous version of Rabbit which is implemented in C#(core) and Electron(GUI). Rabbit is completely rewritten in C++ and Qt6 to improve the performance and stability.

## Installing <a name= "installing"></a>

### 1. Source Code compilation and Installation

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. 

#### Prerequisites

Before building Rabbit, you need to install [Qt6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6) and [xmake](https://xmake.io/#/). 

#### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/0xtaruhi/Rabbit.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

#### Build libusb

After cloning the repository, you need to build libusb first.

* Linux & MacOS

    ```bash
    cd libusb
    ./autogen.sh
    ./configure
    make
    ```

* Windows

    Open the `libusb\msvc\libusb.sln` with **Visual Studio** and build the **static library**. Then copy the `libusb\msvc\libusb\Release\libusb-1.0.lib` to `libusb\libusb\.libs\usb-1.0.lib`.

#### Build & Run Rabbit

##### Aside: If on MacOS, build & link the newly compiled QT6.5.5

Follow the steps in the submodule [qt-everywhere-src-6.5.5](./qt-everywhere-src-6.5.5/README.md) to download and build QT 6.5.5.

After building QT, follow the next steps (make sure to `cd` back to this root directory)

```bash
xmake f --qt=qt-everywhere-src-6.5.5/qt5/qtbase -v
```

Then you can build Rabbit.

```bash
cd ..
xmake build
```

Finally, you can run Rabbit.

```bash
xmake run
```

### 2. Binary Installation

Refer to the [Release Page](https://github.com/0xtaruhi/Rabbit/releases) to download the binary package.

## Usage <a name = "usage"></a>

Refer to the [User Manual](./doc/RabbitHelpDoc.md) for more information.

## Development <a name = "development"></a>

Refer to the [Developer Manual](./doc/RabbitDevDoc.md) for more information.

## Add New Component <a name = "add_new_component"></a>

Refer to the [Add New Component Manual](./doc/AddNewComponent.md) for more information.

## Issues <a name = "issues"></a>

If you have any questions or suggestions, please feel free to open an issue.

Here are some known issues:

1. `libusb` does not support MacOS **M1** chip. 

2. On ubuntu/debian, you need to install `libxcb-cursor` :
   ```
   sudo apt-get install libxcb-cursor0 
   ``` 
   when you run the binary package and get the error message:
   > /usr/local/bin/Rabbit/rabbit_App: error while loading shared libraries: libQt6Widgets.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory


## Contributors <a name = "contributors"></a>

* [0xtaruhi](https://github.com/0xtaruhi) - Main Developer
* [Mxcln](https://github.com/Mxcln) - Developer
